README.md, before:

# Webcam Mods

Tested on MacOS & Arch Linux.

Checkout my other repository for some ffmpeg-only solutions [here](https://github.com/hamidzr/scripts/tree/master/ffmpeg)

## Demo

Installation and a work-in-progress demo: [https://youtu.be/idp7ei-pF40](https://youtu.be/idp7ei-pF40)

## Included Mods

### Face Tracking

Setup your webcam to focus and follow your face by cropping and resizing the frames it receives from
your main webcam.

### Person Segmentation

Separate the people in the frame from the background using a fast real-time prediction model. The model
outputs a mask values between 0 to 1.
We have mods based on this to swap the background with:

- a solid color
- another image
- blurred version of the input frame (aka blur my background)

### Cropping

Interactively move your camera around with arrow keys `ctrl+arrowkeys`
Resize the cropped frame using `ctrl+shift+arrowkeys`

### Padding

Interactively pad your camera output with arrow keys `alt+arrowkeys` while keeping the output
framesize fixed.

## Installation

You might need to include `src` directory in your `$PYTHONPATH`. To do so run the following:

`export PYTHONPATH="./src:$PYTHONPATH"`

### Dependencies

System dependencies:

- python 3.7
- A virtual camera device: [Linux] v4l2loopback [Windows or MacOS] [OBS](https://obsproject.com/).
Follow [pyvirtualcam's instructions](https://github.com/letmaik/pyvirtualcam#supported-virtual-cameras) to set this up.

On Linux once you have the v4l module installed you can run `sudo make add-video-dev` to add a virtual camera device with some pre-set flags.

Python dependencies are listed in `Pipfile`. Install them using [Pipenv](https://pipenv-fork.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) (recommended)

[WARN] If you don't use `pipenv` for dependency and virtual env management you'd need to find replacements wherever you
see `pipenv` mentioned => `grep -R pipenv .`

1. create a virtual environment: `pipenv --python 3.7`
2. activate it `pipenv shell`
3. install the dependencies `pipenv install --skip-lock`


## Upgrading

If you run into an issue upgrading try removing the old config file at `.webcam.conf`

## Running the Mods

After you've successfully followed installation steps, you can run the different modes by
calling `python src/uses/entry.py --help`.
`src/uses` directory directly to use the different modes.
Some of these files have Make targets for ease of use. For example using the `make crop-cam` target activates the virtual env using pipenv and executes `python src/uses/entry.py crop-cam`

## Settings

If you have multiple video input devices, aka webcams, you can pick the one you want by providing its
index through by setting the `VIDEO_IN` environment variable. eg `export VIDEO_IN=0`

When you use the interactive controls to move the camera around the resulting parameters are saved in
a text file to your disk currently named `.webcam.conf`

## TODO

house cleaning:
- clean and reorganize the code
- set up a code formatter
- set up a language server for development with Vim and VSCode
- replace the facetracking model with mediapipe
- move the config file to `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME`

features:
- more stable edges for person segmentation
- zoom support
- [x] MacOS support
- Windows support?
- convert/migrate env variables to cli arguments

bugs:
- bug what?

ideas from https://github.com/fangfufu/Linux-Fake-Background-Webcam/blob/master/fake.py#L285
- post processing, sigmoid
- on demand processing

a demo video showcasing the features

## Contact

Are you interested in helping improve this tool (hint: look at the TODO section)?
Are you looking for a specific feature, or have you found a bug?
Use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/hamidzr/webcam-mods/issues/new) to reach out to me.


## Credits

- [Google/mediapipe](https://github.com/google/mediapipe) for their selfie segmentation model.
- [fangfufu/Linux-Fake-Background-Webcam](https://github.com/fangfufu/Linux-Fake-Background-Webcam) 
- [letmaik/pyvirtualcam](https://github.com/letmaik/pyvirtualcam)

Commit message:

add a version to demo link

README.md, after:

# Webcam Mods

Tested on MacOS & Arch Linux.

Checkout my other repository for some ffmpeg-only solutions [here](https://github.com/hamidzr/scripts/tree/master/ffmpeg)

Find installation and a work-in-progress demo here: [https://youtu.be/idp7ei-pF40](https://youtu.be/idp7ei-pF40) (recorded using version [cf765](https://github.com/hamidzr/webcam-mods/commit/cf7651fe08caea024e4cc9f33540fa4bd2a2eb82))

## Included Mods

### Face Tracking

Setup your webcam to focus and follow your face by cropping and resizing the frames it receives from
your main webcam.

### Person Segmentation

Separate the people in the frame from the background using a fast real-time prediction model. The model
outputs a mask values between 0 to 1.
We have mods based on this to swap the background with:

- a solid color
- another image
- blurred version of the input frame (aka blur my background)

### Cropping

Interactively move your camera around with arrow keys `ctrl+arrowkeys`
Resize the cropped frame using `ctrl+shift+arrowkeys`

### Padding

Interactively pad your camera output with arrow keys `alt+arrowkeys` while keeping the output
framesize fixed.

## Installation

You might need to include `src` directory in your `$PYTHONPATH`. To do so run the following:

`export PYTHONPATH="./src:$PYTHONPATH"`

### Dependencies

System dependencies:

- python 3.7
- A virtual camera device: [Linux] v4l2loopback [Windows or MacOS] [OBS](https://obsproject.com/).
Follow [pyvirtualcam's instructions](https://github.com/letmaik/pyvirtualcam#supported-virtual-cameras) to set this up.

On Linux once you have the v4l module installed you can run `sudo make add-video-dev` to add a virtual camera device with some pre-set flags.

Python dependencies are listed in `Pipfile`. Install them using [Pipenv](https://pipenv-fork.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) (recommended)

[WARN] If you don't use `pipenv` for dependency and virtual env management you'd need to find replacements wherever you
see `pipenv` mentioned => `grep -R pipenv .`

1. create a virtual environment: `pipenv --python 3.7`
2. activate it `pipenv shell`
3. install the dependencies `pipenv install --skip-lock`


## Upgrading

If you run into an issue upgrading try removing the old config file at `.webcam.conf`

## Running the Mods

After you've successfully followed installation steps, you can run the different modes by
calling `python src/uses/entry.py --help`.
`src/uses` directory directly to use the different modes.
Some of these files have Make targets for ease of use. For example using the `make crop-cam` target activates the virtual env using pipenv and executes `python src/uses/entry.py crop-cam`

## Settings

If you have multiple video input devices, aka webcams, you can pick the one you want by providing its
index through by setting the `VIDEO_IN` environment variable. eg `export VIDEO_IN=0`

When you use the interactive controls to move the camera around the resulting parameters are saved in
a text file to your disk currently named `.webcam.conf`

## TODO

house cleaning:
- clean and reorganize the code
- set up a code formatter
- set up a language server for development with Vim and VSCode
- replace the facetracking model with mediapipe
- move the config file to `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME`

features:
- more stable edges for person segmentation
- zoom support
- [x] MacOS support
- Windows support?
- convert/migrate env variables to cli arguments

bugs:
- bug what?

ideas from https://github.com/fangfufu/Linux-Fake-Background-Webcam/blob/master/fake.py#L285
- post processing, sigmoid
- on demand processing

a demo video showcasing the features

## Contact

Are you interested in helping improve this tool (hint: look at the TODO section)?
Are you looking for a specific feature, or have you found a bug?
Use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/hamidzr/webcam-mods/issues/new) to reach out to me.


## Credits

- [Google/mediapipe](https://github.com/google/mediapipe) for their selfie segmentation model.
- [fangfufu/Linux-Fake-Background-Webcam](https://github.com/fangfufu/Linux-Fake-Background-Webcam) 
- [letmaik/pyvirtualcam](https://github.com/letmaik/pyvirtualcam)
